CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

= Contribution Guidelines
:experimental:
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project!
If you are a first-time contributor to this project, please take a look at the <<get_started>> section 😀

CAUTION: All commands in this README document are to be executed from the project root directory (where this document resides).

[[get_started]]
== Get Started

This project uses the https://yarnpkg.com/features/zero-installs[zero-install feature] of the Yarn package manager.
Upon cloning the Git repository, the `.yarn/cache` directory already contains a cache of the third-party dependencies, effectively replacing the usual `node_modules` directory.

=== Install Node.js and Yarn

* *macOS* and *Linux* users should install https://nodejs.org/en[Node.js] via https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm[Node Version Manager] and opt for https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install[Yarn] via https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html[Corepack]:
+
[source,shell]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/master/install.sh | bash
source ~/.bashrc
nvm install --lts
corepack enable yarn
----

* *Windows* users should install https://nodejs.org/en[Node.js] via https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli[Windows Package Manager] and install https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install[Yarn] via npm (which is actually a workaround until Corepack supports Windows):
+
[source,shell]
----
winget install OpenJS.NodeJS.LTS
npm install --global yarn
----

=== Prepare Git

. Generate an SSH key with the *Ed25519* algorithm, for example using https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent[ssh-keygen] or https://developer.1password.com/docs/ssh/manage-keys[1Password], and add it to the SSH agent on your computer.
If you already have an SSH key on your computer, you may skip this step.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f "$HOME/.ssh/*_<my-ssh-key>_*"
ssh-add ~/.ssh/<my-ssh-key>
----

* *Windows* users must instruct Git to use https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/openssh/openssh_overview[Microsoft OpenSSH] as the SSH agent:
+
[source,shell]
----
git config --global core.sshCommand "C:/Windows/System32/OpenSSH/ssh.exe"
----

. Grab the *_public_* key.
It appears like `ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3(...)`.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
cat ~/.ssh/*_<my-ssh-key>_*.pub
----

. Register the public key in https://github.com/settings/keys[GitHub] as a signing key.

. Obtain your noreply email address on https://github.com/settings/emails[GitHub].
It appears like `*_<id+username>_*@users.noreply.github.com`.

. Declare your identity within the scope of this repository and use the public key to sign your commits:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
git config user.name "*_<FirstName> <LastName>_*"
git config user.email "*_<id+username>_*@users.noreply.github.com"
git config user.signingkey "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3**_<PublicKey>_**"
git config gpg.format "ssh"
git config commit.gpgsign "true"
git config tag.gpgsign "true"
----

=== Open the Project in IntelliJ IDEA

. Open the project directory:
+
[source,shell]
----
idea .
----

. Follow the popup message to install the recommended plugins automatically.
Alternatively, go to menu:File[Settings > Plugins] and install them manually.
** https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7391-asciidoc[AsciiDoc]

. Go to menu:File[Settings > Languages & Frameworks > Node.js].
Select the appropriate Node.js interpreter and enable coding assistance.

=== Open the Project in Visual Studio Code

. Open the project directory:
+
[source,shell]
----
code .
----

. Go to menu:View[Extensions] and search for `@recommended`.
Install the recommended extensions.
+
** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=asciidoctor.asciidoctor-vscode[AsciiDoc]

== Troubleshooting

=== IntelliJ IDEA: Cannot Resolve External Modules

If import statements are full of squiggly red lines, and IntelliJ IDEA claims that external modules or third-party dependencies are not installed, try the following steps:

. In the project root directory, delete the `.yarn` directory and the `.pnp.cjs`, `.pnp.loader.mjs`, and `yarn.lock` files.
. Roll back the deletion in Git to restore the files.
This triggers re-indexing in IntelliJ IDEA.
. Go to menu:Help[Find Action] and search for `Restart TypeScript Service`.

Commit message:

Install Prettier
```shell
yarn add --dev prettier
yarn add --dev simple-git-hooks
yarn dlx @yarnpkg/sdks vscode
yarn dedupe
``

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

= Contribution Guidelines
:experimental:
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project!
If you are a first-time contributor to this project, please take a look at the <<get_started>> section 😀

CAUTION: All commands in this README document are to be executed from the project root directory (where this document resides).

[[get_started]]
== Get Started

This project uses the https://yarnpkg.com/features/zero-installs[zero-install feature] of the Yarn package manager.
Upon cloning the Git repository, the `.yarn/cache` directory already contains a cache of the third-party dependencies, effectively replacing the usual `node_modules` directory.

=== Install Node.js and Yarn

* *macOS* and *Linux* users should install https://nodejs.org/en[Node.js] via https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm[Node Version Manager] and opt for https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install[Yarn] via https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html[Corepack]:
+
[source,shell]
----
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/master/install.sh | bash
source ~/.bashrc
nvm install --lts
corepack enable yarn
yarn run setup
----

* *Windows* users should install https://nodejs.org/en[Node.js] via https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli[Windows Package Manager] and install https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install[Yarn] via npm (which is actually a workaround until Corepack supports Windows):
+
[source,shell]
----
winget install OpenJS.NodeJS.LTS
npm install --global yarn
yarn run setup
----

=== Prepare Git

. Generate an SSH key with the *Ed25519* algorithm, for example using https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent[ssh-keygen] or https://developer.1password.com/docs/ssh/manage-keys[1Password], and add it to the SSH agent on your computer.
If you already have an SSH key on your computer, you may skip this step.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f "$HOME/.ssh/*_<my-ssh-key>_*"
ssh-add ~/.ssh/<my-ssh-key>
----

* *Windows* users must instruct Git to use https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/openssh/openssh_overview[Microsoft OpenSSH] as the SSH agent:
+
[source,shell]
----
git config --global core.sshCommand "C:/Windows/System32/OpenSSH/ssh.exe"
----

. Grab the *_public_* key.
It appears like `ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3(...)`.
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
cat ~/.ssh/*_<my-ssh-key>_*.pub
----

. Register the public key in https://github.com/settings/keys[GitHub] as a signing key.

. Obtain your noreply email address on https://github.com/settings/emails[GitHub].
It appears like `*_<id+username>_*@users.noreply.github.com`.

. Declare your identity within the scope of this repository and use the public key to sign your commits:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,+replacements"]
----
git config user.name "*_<FirstName> <LastName>_*"
git config user.email "*_<id+username>_*@users.noreply.github.com"
git config user.signingkey "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3**_<PublicKey>_**"
git config gpg.format "ssh"
git config commit.gpgsign "true"
git config tag.gpgsign "true"
----

=== Open the Project in IntelliJ IDEA

. Open the project directory:
+
[source,shell]
----
idea .
----

. Follow the popup message to install the recommended plugins automatically.
Alternatively, go to menu:File[Settings > Plugins] and install them manually.
** https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7391-asciidoc[AsciiDoc]
** https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10456-prettier[Prettier]

. Go to menu:File[Settings > Languages & Frameworks > Node.js].
Select the appropriate Node.js interpreter and enable coding assistance.

=== Open the Project in Visual Studio Code

. Open the project directory:
+
[source,shell]
----
code .
----

. Go to menu:View[Extensions] and search for `@recommended`.
Install the recommended extensions.
+
** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=asciidoctor.asciidoctor-vscode[AsciiDoc]
** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode[Prettier]
** https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=arcanis.vscode-zipfs[ZipFS] (required by the Yarn SDK)

== Tasks
The `scripts` field in `package.json` defines a set of work tasks.
Corresponding configurations for IntelliJ IDEA and Visual Studio Code are located in `.idea/runConfigurations` and `.vscode/tasks.json`, respectively.

=== Validate the Software Quality

* *Source code formatting* via https://prettier.io[Prettier] (`validate.format`).
** `validate.format.fix` reformats the files accordingly.
** `validate.format.nocache` runs `validate.format` without caching which is encouraged after an adjustment to the formatting configuration.

== Troubleshooting

=== IntelliJ IDEA: Cannot Resolve External Modules

If import statements are full of squiggly red lines, and IntelliJ IDEA claims that external modules or third-party dependencies are not installed, try the following steps:

. In the project root directory, delete the `.yarn` directory and the `.pnp.cjs`, `.pnp.loader.mjs`, and `yarn.lock` files.
. Roll back the deletion in Git to restore the files.
This triggers re-indexing in IntelliJ IDEA.
. Go to menu:Help[Find Action] and search for `Restart TypeScript Service`.
